so you've been asked to give a speech
but your personality is that you are a
quiet person you're introverted you're
not usually the center of attention and
you don't know how you're going to
deliver value to an audience because
you've seen other speakers who are
alloud and who command the stage and
that's just not you don't worry you have
come to the right place because in this
video I'm going to share public speaking
tips for those who are a little quieter
and know that you too can be an
incredible speaker if you stick to your
authentic self and my first tip is just
that tip number one please stay
authentic because I have seen those
people who are quieter by default who
have tried to put on this big Larger
than Life personality and it doesn't
seem genuine it's just not them and what
you'll find is the rest of the tips in
this video are going to ask you to push
your comfort zone a little bit and and
raise your vocal variety and tips like
that but I don't want you to get away
from being your authentic self because
if you are a data driven person who
really is into the numbers more than an
emotionally intelligent person I think
you should lean on those strengths while
still incorporating some best practices
when it comes to public speaking but
just because you've seen other speakers
who have a certain tendency maybe they
move around the stage maybe they're loud
the whole
presentation it doesn't mean you have to
do the exact same thing stick to your
personality be authentic my next tip is
to incorporate plenty of practice
because let's face it if you are a
quieter person and you're not used to
public speaking some of this may seem
unnatural to you therefore you are going
to have to work at it a little bit more
you're going to have to go through your
Pres presentation you may want to
consider joining a club like Toast
Masters where you can get real time
feedback on how you're doing as a
presenter but don't plan to Wing a
speech if public speaking is not natural
to you you prefer being quiet having
one-on-one conversations with people
this is going to push you a little bit
therefore practice is one of the most
important things you can do to ensure
that you deliver a great presentation my
next tip is to project your voice and I
know this might seem like it's
contradicting the first tip of being
authentic especially if you're quieter
projecting your voice is important
because the audience needs to hear what
you're saying in some instances if
you're giving a presentation in front of
a large group of people you'll probably
have a microphone and that will help a
lot but even audiovisual teams I have
spoken to who have put on events they
will always encourage every speaker to
try to speak loudly to the back of the
room even if they have a microphone and
it's really important because your ideas
are valuable whatever you want to share
has value that other people can get
therefore you need to ensure that people
can hear you clearly and this is going
to be perhaps your biggest challenge but
work on projecting your voice it may
seem uncomfortable at first but really
push yourself to speak loud enough have
a base level where most people in the
room can hear you and then of course if
you're telling a serious story you can
bring down the volume and you can
explain the details of that story if
it's sad or if it's something that
really needs people's focus and
attention or you can surprise The
Audience by getting even louder at a
particular moment especially if you have
the quiet personality that's the
advantage for you when you do get loud
that's going to draw the audience in
even more but push yourself to be loud
enough so that the room can hear you and
your great ideas my next tip is to tap
into your listening and observational
skills and this is one way or one area
that I think you have an advantage over
those extroverted speakers or people who
default to being loud in group
situations quieter people are often
observed
and they keep a close eye on what's
going on and they listen carefully to
others while they're in conversations
tap into those skills because if you
noticed something had happened at a
particular conference that you're
speaking at or maybe it was a wedding
there might be something that you
noticed that most other people didn't
catch on to and one of the most powerful
things you can do as a speaker is
incorporate realtime current events that
have happen happened at that event and
mention that in your presentation that
is an elite skill level for speakers and
people who are quieter tend to actually
catch on to things that are happening an
example of this is if you're at a
wedding and there was a funny story or
situation that happened the previous
night maybe there was a dinner where
many people from the wedding were
involved with prior to the wedding day
if You observe that you can then
reference that or some funny situation
that happened while you're giving your
speech at the actual wedding reception
and people will be impressed because
that is something you were doing in real
time you had minimal time to prepare for
it but you were flexible enough to
incorporate it in your speech these
listening and observation skills will
also serve you well in the real moment
in the time that you delivering your
speech you'll be able to look around and
notice expressions on the audience's
faces so if there's something that you
say where people are noding their head
and they're
resonating you will have the
intelligence to know okay maybe this is
an area I can dive deeper into or that
will give you feedback for future
speeches that the audience was taking
note at a particular time so for those
who are quiet but are Great listeners
and observers tap into that skill set my
next tip is again something that should
hopefully lean in to the natural
abilities of people who are a little
more quiet and that is to make the
speech about your audience people with
bigger personalities who tend to be a
bit loud get caught up in creating
speeches that are all about them they
tell their own stories they may get a
lot of laughs but everything is
regarding their own personal experience
and it's more challenging sometimes for
those individuals to flip the script and
realize whatever I'm presenting I should
be thinking about my audience first and
people who are a bit quieter who have
those great listening or observational
skills that might be an easier easier
thing for them to connect because they
have that natural tendency think about
what your audience can get from the
presentation and from the day one of you
building and practicing and preparing
your speech think about what is it that
I want my audience to take from this
message if it's a wedding and
entertaining the audience maybe all you
want them to take is the fact that
you're saying some kind words about the
bride and groom and providing a little
bit of entertainment if it's a work
presentation maybe your goal is to
inspire your colleagues or challenge
them to be a little bit more Innovative
in the coming year really hone in and
identify what it is that your audience
can take from what you're presenting and
make that the focus from the very
beginning my final tip and maybe the
most important thing for those who tend
to be a little quieter is to stay calm
public speaking is probably a daunting
thought for many individuals who are on
the introverted side therefore by
staying calm by practicing a few
techniques it is really going to help
you and a few of these techniques
include box breathing the concept there
is to breathe in for 4 seconds
hold the breath for 4 seconds exhale for
4 seconds hold the breath for 4 seconds
inhale and you repeat that cycle and it
makes this little box concept as you go
through each 4 seconds and that will
help you stay calm that will help
regulate your breathing another tip is
to bring water on stage with you our
mouths tend to go dry especially if
we're not used to public speaking when
we get nervous therefore having water is
going to help us keep that mouth
hydrated and avoid that sticky sound of
opening and closing our mouth that
happens from time to time another tip is
to stand up before the presentation
rather than starting from a seated
position and then walking on stage or
walking in front of the room try to find
a spot off to the side of the room where
you can stand up that is your body
getting ready for the action of public
speaking but these tips this focus on
staying calm is really important because
you are going to have nerves everybody
gets nerves before they speak in front
of a group of people but you as a quiet
person will probably especially feel
this way you want to give yourself the
best chance to succeed and that goes
back to my second tip which is really
practicing the more you practice the
more confidence you will have in what it
is you're presenting and that will make
it easier for you I hope these tips
focused on helping those who are quieter
in nature at doing a great job public
speaking were helpful let me know in the
comments are you someone who's quiet a
little more introverted how did you find
these tips how have you found public
speaking in general do you have any more
questions let me know in the comments if
you have not already subscribed to my
Channel please do that that is the best
way to support me and it allows me to
continue making this video content with
the goal of of helping you be a more
impactful communicator and a better
public speaker I'll catch you on the
next video